# Webpack
- It transforms multiple input JS file into a single js file, which we typically called as bundle. This file is then 
- passed on to the browser to get executed. To execute the file on to the browser we need to configure webpack with devServer. It is a 
- property on a webpack config object which accepts an object with port and other properties. We need to set a port here to execute the output
- generated by webpack onto the browser. To make the webpack devServer enabled we need to run npm run webpack serve
- current webpack configuration would look something like below
```
module.exports = {
    mode: "development",
    devServer: {
        port: 8081
    }
}
```
- When we run the command npm run webpack serve. Following things happen
    - webpack creates the bundler out JS files. The output generated by webpack can be accessed on http://localhost:8081/main.js. However, just this piece of code/(contents of bundle) is of no use for us. It would be of some use if we could run this code. That can be atcheived by injecting it into html file. 
    - To run this we need to create a html document and reference this using stript tag. 
    - We create a simple html file inside src/index.html and add the following code
    ```
    <!Document html>
    <html>
    <head>
    </head>
    <body>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```
    - If you notice we have not added any script tag. We expect webpack to figure out how to add it. Expectation is eventualy we need to be able to see the script tag with reference to main.js inside the index.html somthing as below
    ```
    <scrpit src="main.js"></script>
    ```
    - When working with lage projects webpack may provide more than one js file with unpredicted names. This becomes dificult to keep track of them and inject into html. To over come this we have a plugin called HtmlWebpackPlugin. It can be used to configure the app to load html and add appropriate script tags to it
    - Below webpack config file shows how to configure the webpack to map the names of output files generated by webpack to the script tag in html file
    ```
    const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin')
    module.exports = {
        mode: 'development',
        devServer: {
            port: 8081
        },
        plugins:[
            new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
                template: './public/index.html'
            })
        ]
    }
    ```
